W-18195573-CHtoCH2-App-Migration (#787)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: cloudhub/modules/ROOT/pages/app-migration.adoc

CloudHub can theoretically receive traffic from two main sources:

* Shared Load Balancer (SLB): This is typically associated with the default endpoints of your CloudHub application, often listening on ports `8081/8082`.
* Dedicated Load Balancer (DLB): This is usually associated with vanity domains configured for your CloudHub application, often listening on ports `8091/8092`.

CloudHub 2.0 applications, in contrast, only listen on a single port, `8081`. 

During traffic switching, CloudHub needs to know the traffic source to correctly modify the DNS records. This is because applications using SLB have a different DNS record structure than those using DLB.

To facilitate the gradual migration of traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0, the system creates weighted DNS records. These records direct a certain percentage of traffic to your CloudHub application and the remaining percentage to your linked CloudHub 2.0 application. The specific DNS record that needs to be weighted depends on whether the traffic to your CloudHub application originates from the SLB or the DLB.

> Anypoint Deployment and Management (ADAM) infers the traffic source based on the endpoints configured for your application. The rules for inference are:

Reviewer: @luanamulesoft @rithishapadmanabh I looked in the documentation and didn't find anywhere else where we mention ADAM. The only thing I could think of to refer to ADAM was _**AMC Application Manager**_, considering it's a [public](https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231223/) API. I wonder if it is really necessary to clarify which service is responsible for doing traffic source inference?

= CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 Application Migration

> After your VPC upgrade is complete, you can start migrating all associated applications. You can do so by creating an equivalent CloudHub 2.0 application for every CloudHub application, and linking them to have weighted DNS records created for both the CloudHub and the CloudHub 2.0 URLs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After your Anypoint VPC upgrade is complete, you can migrate all associated applications. Migration involves creating an equivalent CloudHub 2.0 application for every CloudHub application, and linking them to create weighted DNS records for both the CloudHub and the CloudHub 2.0 URLs. 
```

The current CloudHub application continues to run without any disruption until the upgrade is complete. After the upgrade is complete, you can continue to use the same CloudHub URL for your new CloudHub 2.0 application.

Some configuration settings of the CloudHub application aren't automatically mapped to the new CloudHub 2.0 application. Go to your new CloudHub 2.0 application settings to finish the configuration.

[NOTE]
During the application upgrade process, no out-of-the-box entitlements are provided. Work with your account representative to remain compliant with entitlements and finish the upgrade on time.

> == Upgrade your CH application to CH2 via Anypoint Platform

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Upgrade Your CloudHub Application to CloudHub 2 via Anypoint Platform
```

. From *Anypoint Platform*, select *Runtime Manager* > *Applications*.

> . Select the CloudHub application you want to upgrade and navigate to *Settings*. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the CloudHub application to upgrade and go to *Settings*. 
```

> . If your application is eligible for the upgrade, the upgrade tooling is available on the *Settings* page: click *Upgrade to CloudHub 2.0*, then click *Start Upgrade*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
If your application is eligible for the upgrade, the upgrade tooling is available on the *Settings* page.
. Click *Upgrade to CloudHub 2.0*, then click *Start Upgrade*.
```

+

> image::upgrade-application-window.png[CloudHub to CLoudHub 2.0 application upgrade window.]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::upgrade-application-window.png[CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 application upgrade window]
```

+
The *Upgrade Application to CloudHub 2.0* page opens.
+

> . The *Application Name* field shows the inherited CloudHub application name by default. If you want to use a different name for your CloudHub 2.0 application, change it by editing the field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Application Name* field shows the inherited CloudHub application name by default.
+
To use a different name for your CloudHub 2.0 application, change it by editing the field.
```

Reviewer 2: I made this not a step because it doesn't start with an imperative. And it's optional.

ETA: These are really just bullets - info about the page.

> . The *Upgrading From* field shows the name of the CloudHub application the new application is being upgraded from. You can’t edit this field.

Reviewer 2: Not a step. There's no user action here.

> . The *Upgrading From* field shows the name of the CloudHub application the new application is being upgraded from. You can’t edit this field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Upgrading From* field shows the name of the CloudHub application the new application is being upgraded from.
+
You can’t edit this field.
```

> . The *Deployment Target* field shows the preselected private space for the application deployment based on the upgraded CloudHub VPC. You can’t edit this field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. *Deployment Target* field shows the preselected private space for the application deployment based on the upgraded CloudHub VPC.
+
You can’t edit this field.
```

. For the *Application File*, you can either:

> .. Upload your Application File: Download the application asset from the link provided under *Application File*, make all the necessary changes, and reupload it to deploy your new application to the CloudHub 2.0 private space, or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Upload your application file: Download the application asset from the link under *Application File*, make the necessary changes, and upload it to deploy your new application to the CloudHub 2.0 private space.
```

Reviewer 2: Is "Upload your Application File" a UI label? If not, this should be "Upload your application file:"

> .. Import File from Exchange: Import the CloudHub application you want to upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Is "Import File from Exchange" a UI label? If not, this should be "Import file from Exchange:"

. In the *Ingress* tab, specify the *Endpoint* configuration:
.. Select a *Host* from the dropdown list.
+
[NOTE] 

> If you're using `anypoint.dns.net` without a TLS context, the Ingress tab doesn’t show it as a possible endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using `anypoint.dns.net` without a TLS context, the *Ingress* tab doesn’t show it as a possible endpoint.
```

+

> .. Select a specific *Subdomain* from the dropdown list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Select a specific subdomain from the dropdown list.
```

Reviewer 2: Don't use UI elements as nouns in the sentence.

> .. Add a specific *Path*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Add a specific path.
```

> .. Optionally, provide a specific *Path Rewrite*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Optionally, provide a specific path rewrite.
```

Reviewer 2: Does the user know what this is and how to specify it?

> .. Select whether you want to provide internal or external *Access* to your endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Select whether you want to provide internal or external access to your endpoint.
```

> . Follow the regular steps to xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-deploy.adoc[deploy an application to CloudHub 2.0].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Follow the steps to xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-deploy.adoc[deploy an application to CloudHub 2.0].
```

[NOTE]

> The *Host* dropdown list shows only the domains added under the certificates of the underlying VPC Dedicated Load Balancer configuration before the application upgrade started. If you add a new certificate to the underlying VPC Dedicated Load Balancer after the application upgrade has started, you need to manually add it under the *Domain & TLS* tab of your newly created private space for that domain to appear on the *Host* dropdown list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Host* dropdown list shows only the domains added under the certificates of the underlying VPC Dedicated Load Balancer configuration before the application upgrade started. If you add a new certificate to the underlying VPC Dedicated Load Balancer after the application upgrade has started, you need to manually add it under the *Domain & TLS* tab of your newly created private space for that domain to appear in the *Host* dropdown list.
```

== Next Steps After Application Upgrade

> After the CloudHub 2.0 application has been deployed, you can test and verify it by directing traffic to it and verifying network connectivity and the app behavior. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the CloudHub 2.0 application is deployed, you can test the app by directing traffic to it and verifying network connectivity and the app behavior. 
```

> If you want to retain the same domains as they move from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 to avoid updating your client applications that connect to CloudHub, you can link your applications by applying either of these options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid updating your client applications that connect to CloudHub, retain the domains from CloudHub on CloudHub 2.0. To link your applications, apply either of these options:
```

> Customer-managed:: Switch the application’s xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-config-endpoints-paths.adoc[DNS] to point to CloudHub 2.0; or 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customer-managed:: Switch the application’s xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-config-endpoints-paths.adoc[DNS] to point to CloudHub 2.0.
```

Reviewer 2: (We don't use the "; or" at the end of options.)

> Mulesoft-managed:: Carry over vanity URLs while incrementally switching percentage of traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MuleSoft-managed:: Carry over vanity URLs while incrementally switching percentage of traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0.
```

To gradually switch traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0:

. In *Runtime Manager*, go to *Traffic Switching*.

> . Select the percentage of traffic you want to direct from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0, and click *Save changes*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the percentage of traffic to direct from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0, and click *Save changes*.
```

+
image::traffic-switching.png[CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 app traffic switching window.]

[NOTE]
You can roll back to CloudHub if there are failures during this stage.

> === Understanding Traffic Source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Understanding the Traffic Source
```

> The traffic source determines which type of DNS record are updated to manage the traffic flow between your CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0 applications during the migration process. Understanding this concept helps you anticipate how ‌‌traffic is managed based on your application's existing and new endpoint configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The traffic source determines which type of DNS record is updated to manage the traffic flow between your CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0 applications during the migration process. Understanding this concept helps you anticipate how ‌‌traffic is managed based on your application's existing and new endpoint configurations.
```

CloudHub can theoretically receive traffic from two main sources:

> * Shared Load Balancer (SLB): This is typically associated with the default endpoints of your CloudHub application, often listening on ports `8081/8082`.

Reviewer 2: This what?

* Dedicated Load Balancer (DLB): This is usually associated with vanity domains configured for your CloudHub application, often listening on ports `8091/8092`.

> CloudHub 2.0 applications, in contrast, only listen on a single port, `8081`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CloudHub 2.0 applications listen on a single port: `8081`. 
```

During traffic switching, CloudHub needs to know the traffic source to correctly modify the DNS records. This is because applications using SLB have a different DNS record structure than those using DLB.

To facilitate the gradual migration of traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0, the system creates weighted DNS records. These records direct a certain percentage of traffic to your CloudHub application and the remaining percentage to your linked CloudHub 2.0 application. The specific DNS record that needs to be weighted depends on whether the traffic to your CloudHub application originates from the SLB or the DLB.

The system infers the traffic source based on the endpoints configured for your application. The rules for inference are:

* If your application has a CloudHub default endpoint, the SLB DNS record is used for traffic switching. CloudHub default domains follow patterns like `$region.$env.cloudhub.io` or `*.ca-c1.stgx.cloudhub.io/`.
* If your application has any other endpoints, such as vanity domains or mule-worker endpoints, the DLB DNS record is used for traffic switching. 

> * Vanity domains are any domains other than the default CloudHub or CloudHub 2.0 domains. Make sure that the vanity domain on CloudHub 2.0 matches the one on the CloudHub application, or avoid setting a traffic switch percentage to prevent dropped traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Vanity domains are any domains other than the default CloudHub or CloudHub 2.0 domains.
+
Make sure that the vanity domain on CloudHub 2.0 matches the one on the CloudHub application, or avoid setting a traffic switch percentage to prevent dropped traffic.
```

* If your application has both default domains and vanity domains configured, default domains take precedence over vanity domains.

If you change your application's endpoint configuration, the inferred traffic source can also change. For example, if you initially had only vanity domains (DLB) and then add a CloudHub default endpoint, the traffic source is inferred as SLB.

=== Managing API Policies During Traffic Switching

When API policies are applied to your application in the new runtime, they begin with a clean internal status.

> ==== Policies Unchanged by the Runtime:

Reviewer 2: What does Runtime mean in this context?

Author: My guess is it refers to the app's active/running time in the new target (CH2). I asked an SME to confirm.  Once I get the answer, I'll change it to make it clearer.

Reviewer 2: OK, because "Runtime" has specific meanings in the context of Mule...

If it's the running time, suggest using that instead.

> ==== Policies Unchanged by the Runtime:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Policies Unchanged by the Runtime
```

Reviewer 2: Don't include punctuation in the headings.

> The following policies do not rely on internal status and their behavior remains consistent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These policies don't rely on internal status and their behavior remains consistent:
```

* http-basic-authentication
* cors
* client id enforcement
* Header injection
* Header removal
* ip-allowlist
* ip-blocklist
* ldap-authentication
* message-logging
* json-threat-protection
* xml-threat-protection

> ==== Policies Affected by Internal Status (Caching):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Policies Affected by Internal Status (Caching)
```

> These policies rely on internal status to cache data. When transitioning to the new runtime, they can either trigger additional requests to the origin servers or have different cached values depending on which runtime receives the requests:

Reviewer 2: Move the second sentence to after the list and change the period after data to a colon.

* external-oauth2-access-token-enforcement
* openam-access-token-enforcement
* openidconnect-access-token-enforcement
* pingfederate-access-token-enforcement
* mule-http-caching-policy
* jwt-validation

> ==== Policies Affected by Internal Status (Request Counting):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Policies Affected by Internal Status (Request Counting)
```

> Policies that track the number of processed requests can sometimes exhibit unexpected behavior during runtime transitions. Complete traffic shifts reset counters. In a balanced round-robin traffic distribution, the effective quota can sometimes double as each runtime maintains an independent counter:

Reviewer 2: The colon makes no sense here. 

You need a sentence to introduce the list - with a colon.

Also, what does this mean: Complete traffic shifts reset counters.

* rate-limiting
* rate-limiting-sla-based
* spike-control

> During the CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 application migration, traffic is gradually shifts, and both applications are active simultaneously. If your API Manager policies are closely integrated with your original CloudHub application, these configurations can’t be easily shared or migrated in real time. To maintain consistent policy enforcement, configure equivalent policies on your CloudHub 2.0 application's API instance during traffic switching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 application migration, traffic gradually shifts, and both applications are active simultaneously. If your API Manager policies are closely integrated with your original CloudHub application, these configurations can’t be easily shared or migrated in real time. To maintain consistent policy enforcement, configure equivalent policies on your CloudHub 2.0 application's API instance during traffic switching.
```

Auto-discovery connects a deployed Mule application with an API defined in API Manager. Throughout the migration, both your CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0 applications are linked to the same API.

== Complete the Application Upgrade

> After traffic has been fully redirected to the CloudHub 2.0 application, you have 30 days to stop your CloudHub application and mark the upgrade as complete. If you don't stop it within this period, the platform automatically stops the application for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After traffic is fully redirected to the CloudHub 2.0 application, you have 30 days to stop your CloudHub application and mark the upgrade as complete. If you don't stop it within this period, the platform automatically stops the application for you.
```

> If you change your CloudHub application after it is stopped, the changes aren't replicated in your new CloudHub 2.0 application.  Make any changes you need in the CloudHub 2.0 application settings. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you change your CloudHub application after it stops, the changes aren't replicated in your new CloudHub 2.0 application.  Make any changes to the CloudHub 2.0 application settings. 
```

> After your CloudHub application has been stopped, you have 30 days to delete it. If you don't delete it within this period, the platform automatically deletes the application for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After your CloudHub application is stopped, you have 30 days to delete it. If you don't delete it within this period, the platform automatically deletes the application for you.
```

= CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 Application Migration

After your Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) upgrade is complete, you can migrate all associated applications. Migration involves creating an equivalent CloudHub 2.0 application for every CloudHub application, and linking them. 

The current CloudHub application runs without disruption until the upgrade completes. Then, you can use the same CloudHub URL for your CloudHub 2.0 application.

[NOTE]
During the application upgrade process, MuleSoft doesn't provide any out-of-the-box entitlements. Work with your account representative to remain compliant with entitlements and finish the upgrade on time.

== Upgrade Your CloudHub Application to CloudHub 2.0 via Anypoint Platform

. From *Anypoint Platform*, select *Runtime Manager* > *Applications*.
. Select the CloudHub application to upgrade and go to *Settings*. 
+
If your application is eligible for the upgrade, the upgrade tooling is available on the *Settings* page.
. Click *Upgrade to CloudHub 2.0*, then click *Start Upgrade*.
+

> image::upgrade-application-window.png[CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 application upgrade window]

Reviewer 2: Is this the page that appears after they click Start Upgrade or where they click Start Upgrade?

If the former, move to after the paragraph below and add the info on what they see (the inherited app name) to the alt text. The alt text should describe the image - what's important about it, why are you including an image - for the screen reader.

Author: They click *Upgrade to CloudHub 2.0*, then this windows opens (upgrade-application-window.png), which has the  *Start Upgrade* button. After they click *Start Upgrade*, the *Upgrade Application to CloudHub 2.0* page opens, which has the fileds described below.

+
The *Upgrade Application to CloudHub 2.0* page opens.
+
The *Application Name* field shows the inherited CloudHub application name by default.
+
To use a different name for your CloudHub 2.0 application, change it by editing the field.

> * The *Upgrading From* field shows the name of the CloudHub application the new application.

Reviewer 2: Something's missing in this sentence. Read it aloud.

+
You can’t edit this field.
The *Deployment Target* field shows the preselected private space for the application deployment based on the upgraded CloudHub VPC.
+
You can’t edit this field.

> . For the *Application File*, you can either:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. For *Application File*, you can either:
```

> .. Upload your application file: Download the application asset from the link under *Application File*, make the necessary changes, and upload it to deploy your new application to the CloudHub 2.0 private space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
* Upload your application file: Download the application asset from the link under *Application File*, make the necessary changes, and upload it to deploy your new application to the CloudHub 2.0 private space.
```

Reviewer 2: (These aren't sequential, so they're unordered. You pick one option rather than go step by step.)

> .. Import file from Exchange: Import the CloudHub application you want to upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Import file from Exchange: Import the CloudHub application you want to upgrade.
```

. In the *Ingress* tab, specify the *Endpoint* configuration:
.. Select a *Host* from the dropdown list.
+
[NOTE]

> If you're using `anypoint.dns.net` without a TLS context, the *Ingress* tab doesn’t show it as a possible endpoint.

Reviewer 2: What does "it" mean here, anypoint.dns.net?

=== Considerations and Limitations

The upgrade process doesn’t automatically map some configuration settings to the new CloudHub 2.0 application. 

==== Application Properties 

The upgrade process doesn't carry over application properties to CloudHub 2.0. Reconfigure these properties manually for a successful upgrade:

* The upgrade process copies your CloudHub app's properties during the CloudHub 2.0 application configuration. These properties don't persist unless you edit at least one property or add a new property. Editing a single property, or adding a new one, causes the edited or new property and all other copied properties to persist.
* The upgrade process copies the protected properties added during CloudHub 1.0 with `****` as their displayed value. Change this displayed value manually to the correct protected value within your CloudHub 2.0 application settings.

> ==== Managing Migrated Apps via Mule Maven Plug-in (MMP) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Managing Migrated Apps via Mule Maven Plugin (MMP) 
```

> To manage a migrated app using the Mule Maven Plug-in (MMP), copy the public URL configured on Runtime Manager during the migration. If the endpoints specified in the `publicUrl` field of your `pom.xml` file don't match the ones configured in the UI, the Ingress configuration is lost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manage a migrated app using the Mule Maven plugin (MMP), copy the public URL configured in Runtime Manager during the migration. If the endpoints specified in the `publicUrl` field of your `pom.xml` file don't match the ones configured in the UI, the Ingress configuration is lost.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we're allowed to use an initialism (MMP) for a product name.

== Next Steps After Application Upgrade

After the upgrade process deploys your CloudHub 2.0 application, test the app by directing traffic to it and verifying network connectivity and the app behavior. 

To avoid updating your client applications that connect to CloudHub, retain the domains from CloudHub on CloudHub 2.0. To link your applications, apply either of these options:

> Customer-Managed:: Switch the application’s xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-config-endpoints-paths.adoc[DNS] to point to CloudHub 2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customer-managed:: Switch the application’s xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-config-endpoints-paths.adoc[DNS] to point to CloudHub 2.0.
```

> MuleSoft-Managed:: Carry over vanity URLs while incrementally switching percentage of traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MuleSoft-managed:: Carry over vanity URLs while incrementally switching percentage of traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0.
```

[IMPORTANT]
Restart your DLB before initiating the traffic switching.

To gradually switch traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0:

. In *Runtime Manager*, go to *Finish Upgrade*.

> . Select the percentage of traffic to direct from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0, and click *Save changes*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the percentage of traffic to direct from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0, and click *Save Changes*.
```

+

> image::traffic-switching.png[CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 app traffic switching window.]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::traffic-switching.png[CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 app traffic switching window]
```

[NOTE]
You can roll back to CloudHub if there are failures during this stage.

=== Understanding the Traffic Source

> The traffic source determines which type of DNS record the process updates to manage the traffic flow between your CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0 applications during the migration process. Understanding this concept helps you anticipate how the system manages the ‌‌traffic based on your application's existing and new endpoint configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The traffic source determines which type of DNS record the process updates to manage the traffic flow between your CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0 applications during the migration process. Understanding this concept helps you anticipate how the system manages traffic based on your application's existing and new endpoint configurations.
```

CloudHub receives traffic from two main sources:

* Shared Load Balancer (SLB): This source is typically associated with the default endpoints of your CloudHub application. In applications with inbound traffic, the SLB handles traffic switching if your Ingress configuration includes the default CloudHub application endpoint in the format: `<app_name>.<region>.cloudhub.io`.
* Dedicated Load Balancer (DLB): This source is usually associated with vanity domains configured for your CloudHub application. If the default CloudHub endpoint is missing, and you have configured a vanity domain or an `anypointdns.net` endpoint, the DLB switches the traffic.

> During traffic switching, CloudHub needs to know the traffic source to correctly switch traffic between CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0. If you change your application's endpoint configuration, the inferred traffic source also changes. For example, if you initially have only vanity domains (DLB) and then add a CloudHub default endpoint, CloudHub infers the traffic source as SLB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During traffic switching, CloudHub needs to know the traffic source to correctly switch traffic between CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0. If you change your application's endpoint configuration, the inferred traffic source also changes. For example, if you initially have only vanity domains (DLB) and then add a CloudHub default endpoint, CloudHub infers the traffic source as the SLB.
```

To ensure successful traffic switching, follow specific configurations depending on the type of load balancer you want to use and the type of traffic you expect.

==== DLB with HTTPS Traffic Switching

> For applications using a DLB and expecting HTTPS traffic:

Reviewer 2: Do you need to do all of these? Are they steps? If so, make them a numbered list.

* Enable Last-Mile Security for the CloudHub 2.0 application.
* Enable Upstream TLS 1.2 or higher in your DLB settings.
* Make sure that vanity domains on CloudHub 2.0 match those on the CloudHub application to prevent dropped traffic.

==== DLB with HTTP Traffic Switching

> For applications using a DLB and expecting HTTP traffic:

Reviewer 2: Same question as line 113.

* Enable the *Accept HTTP* option within the *Advanced* tab of your private space settings. 
* Add a firewall rule allowing HTTP from the local private network.

[WARNING]

> The CloudHub DLB routes requests from clients to Mule apps deployed within the VPC. The DLB sends requests to a Mule application. It uses the HTTP Host header to find the certificate endpoint that matches the request. Then, it uses the URL mapping rules for that endpoint to send the request to the Mule application. If the request doesn't match any certificate configured on the DLB, the DLB uses the "default" certificate endpoint to match the request against its URL mapping rules. During traffic switching, CloudHub 2.0 doesn't contain mapping rules for this unmatched host within the default certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CloudHub DLB routes requests from clients to Mule apps deployed within the VPC. The DLB sends requests to a Mule application and uses the HTTP Host header to find the certificate endpoint that matches the request. Then, the DLB uses the URL mapping rules for that endpoint to send the request to the Mule application. If the request doesn't match any certificate configured on the DLB, the DLB uses the "default" certificate endpoint to match the request against its URL mapping rules. During traffic switching, CloudHub 2.0 doesn't contain mapping rules for this unmatched host within the default certificate.
```

==== SLB with HTTPS Traffic Switching

For applications using an SLB and expecting HTTPS traffic:

> * Enable Last-Mile Security for the CloudHub 2.0 application.

Reviewer 2: Should this be "last-mile security"? Only use Title Case if it's a proper noun or a UI element. If it's a UI element, make it bold.

==== SLB with HTTP Traffic Switching

> For applications using an SLB and expecting HTTP traffic:

Reviewer 2: Again, I think this list probably should be numbered.

==== Policies Unchanged by the App Migration

These policies don't rely on internal status and their behavior remains consistent:

* http-basic-authentication
* cors
* client id enforcement
* Header injection
* Header removal
* ip-allowlist
* ip-blocklist
* ldap-authentication
* message-logging
* json-threat-protection
* xml-threat-protection

==== Policies Affected by Internal Status (Caching)

These policies rely on internal status to cache data: 

* external-oauth2-access-token-enforcement
* openam-access-token-enforcement
* openidconnect-access-token-enforcement
* pingfederate-access-token-enforcement
* mule-http-caching-policy
* jwt-validation

When transitioning to the new application, these policies can either trigger additional requests to the origin servers or have different cached values depending on which application receives the requests.

==== Policies Affected by Internal Status (Request Counting)

These policies track the number of processed requests and can sometimes exhibit unexpected behavior during the transition to the new application: 

* rate-limiting
* rate-limiting-sla-based
* spike-control

> If there's a hard change on traffic from one application to the other, policy counters behave as if they were reset. In a balanced round-robin traffic distribution, the effective number of requests can sometimes double as each application maintains an independent counting mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there's a hard change in traffic from one application to the other, policy counters behave as if they were reset. In a balanced round-robin traffic distribution, the effective number of requests can sometimes double because each application maintains an independent counting mechanism.
```

Reviewer 2: Is "hard change" a common term?

Author: Yes, in policy management.
"Hard change" in network traffic management refers to traffic policing, where a network device enforces a strict, hard limit on the rate of network traffic by discarding or marking any packets that exceed a defined threshold.

> During the CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 application migration, traffic gradually shifts, and both applications are active simultaneously. If your API Manager policies are integrated with your original CloudHub application, the system can’t share or migrate these configurations in real-time. To maintain consistent policy enforcement, configure equivalent policies on your CloudHub 2.0 application's API instance during traffic switching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 application migration, traffic gradually shifts, and both applications are active simultaneously. If your API Manager policies are integrated with your original CloudHub application, the system can’t share or migrate these configurations in real time. To maintain consistent policy enforcement, configure equivalent policies on your CloudHub 2.0 application's API instance during traffic switching.
```

Autodiscovery connects a deployed Mule application with an API defined in API Manager. Throughout the migration, both your CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0 applications link to the same API.

== Complete the Application Upgrade

After traffic fully redirects to the CloudHub 2.0 application, stop your CloudHub application within 30 days and mark the upgrade as complete. 

If you change your CloudHub application after it stops, the changes aren't replicated in your new CloudHub 2.0 application. Make any required changes to the CloudHub 2.0 application settings. 

After you your CloudHub application stops, delete it within 30 days. 

[NOTE]
====
After the CloudHub application stops, traffic switches to the linked CloudHub 2.0 application. To roll back the application upgrade, restart your CloudHub application and configure the traffic switching percentage.

> After you delete the CloudHub application, the migration is complete. You then can't create a new CloudHub application with the same application name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you delete the CloudHub application, the migration is complete. You then can't create another CloudHub application with the same application name.
```

====

Complete or delete all CloudHub applications in a given upgraded VPC to release entitlements.

== Perform DLB Failover 

After the VPC upgrade and CloudHub application migration to CloudHub 2.0, perform a DLB failover to retain domains during the transition from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0. This ensures client application compatibility.

To perform a DLB failover:

. For each DLB linked to your upgraded VPC, go to the DLB settings page and click *Failover to CloudHub 2.0*. 
+
This fails over the `anypointdns.net` domain to CloudHub 2.0, removes any additional DLB hop, and redirects traffic to your new CloudHub 2.0 private space URL.

. After the traffic failover completes, stop and delete the CloudHub DLB linked to the VPC.

[NOTE]

> If there are failures during this stage, restart the DLB to point `anypointdns.net` to CloudHub while the DLB is in a 'stopped' state. After you delete the DLB, you can't roll back to CloudHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there are failures during this stage, restart the DLB to point `anypointdns.net` to CloudHub while the DLB is in a stopped state. After you delete the DLB, you can't roll back to CloudHub.
```

The current CloudHub application runs without disruption until the upgrade completes. Then, you can use the same CloudHub URL for your CloudHub 2.0 application.

[NOTE]
During the application upgrade process, MuleSoft doesn't provide any out-of-the-box entitlements. Work with your account representative to remain compliant with entitlements and finish the upgrade on time.

== Upgrade Your CloudHub Application to CloudHub 2.0 via Anypoint Platform

. From *Anypoint Platform*, select *Runtime Manager* > *Applications*.
. Select the CloudHub application to upgrade and go to *Settings*. 
+
If your application is eligible for the upgrade, the upgrade tooling is available on the *Settings* page.
. Click *Upgrade to CloudHub 2.0*, then click *Start Upgrade*.
+
image::upgrade-application-window.png[CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 upgrade window summarizing the application migration process and containing the Start Upgrade button.]
+
The *Upgrade Application to CloudHub 2.0* page opens.
+

> The *Application Name* field shows the inherited CloudHub application name by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The *Application Name* field shows the inherited CloudHub application name by default.
```

==== CloudHub Application Default Domain

When deploying a new CloudHub 2.0 application, avoid using the CloudHub default domain to prevent issues such as traffic outages.

== Next Steps After Application Upgrade

After the upgrade process deploys your CloudHub 2.0 application, test the app by directing traffic to it and verifying network connectivity and the app behavior. 

To avoid updating your client applications that connect to CloudHub, retain the domains from CloudHub on CloudHub 2.0. To link your applications, apply either of these options:

Customer-Managed:: Switch the application’s xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-config-endpoints-paths.adoc[DNS] to point to CloudHub 2.0.

MuleSoft-Managed:: Carry over vanity URLs while incrementally switching percentage of traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0.

[IMPORTANT]
Restart your DLB before initiating the traffic switching.

To gradually switch traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0:

. In *Runtime Manager*, go to *Finish Upgrade*.
. Select the percentage of traffic to direct from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0, and click *Save Changes*.
+

> image::traffic-switching.png[Traffic switching window showing the percentage slider to gradually redirect traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 and the Save Changes button.]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::traffic-switching.png[Traffic switching window showing the percentage slider to gradually redirect traffic from CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 and the Save Changes button]
```
